
1. Lab Environment - Home Setup - (Oracle ) VirtualBox  - To setup Lab environment on Local Machine

In this first we will install a virtual box on the host machine and then install Ubuntu software on it. 

Why is Virtualization useful?
    -   Running multiple operating systems simultaneously. 
    -   Easier software installations. 
    -   Testing and disaster recovery. 
    -   Infrastructure consolidation. 

Virtualization Terminiology
    -   Host operating system (host OS). 
    -   Guest operating system (guest OS).
    -   Virtual machine (VM). 
    -   Guest Additions. 
    -   Desktop Virtualization

- Hypervisor/VMM (Virtual Machine Moniter)
    - Hypervisor is a special software product that can simultaneously run multiple virtual machines on a physical machine.
        The VMs are logically isolated from each other and the underlying physical machine; 
        this is due to the abstraction layer of a hypervisor that makes VMs independent from the hardware that is
        used by a physical machine. This setup enables one of the advantages of virtualization – easy copying
        machines from one host to another. 
        Another benefit is hardware resource redistribution between VMs.

    -  Oracle provides VirtualBox as a hypervisor for running virtual machines (VMs).

    -  The hypervisor is a software that can virtualize the hardware resources. For example Oracle VirtualBox, Fusion VMvare
       There are two types of hypervisors:
    
         - Type 1 hypervisor: hypervisors run directly on the system hardware – A “bare metal” embedded hypervisor.
                A type 1 hypervisor doesn’t require an underlying operating system (OS) because the hypervisor works as the operating system in this case. Using type 1 is optimal for large production environments.
    
         - Type 2 hypervisor: hypervisors run on a host operating system that provides virtualization services, such as I/O device support and memory management.
                A  type 2 hypervisor runs on an existing host operating system as an application. 
                This type provides virtualization services by coordinating calls for CPU, memory, disk, and other 
                I/O (input/output) resources through the host OS. Using a type 2 hypervisor is convenient for users who want to run a VM on their personal computers.

Below are the steps to setup Virtual Box and Install VM's (Virtual Machines) :

    A. Download Oracle Windows host on the machine. To do that, go to https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads and select "Windows Host Machine" and Install that.
    
    B. Once installed, we need to deploy the OS Image which we want to install on the Virtual box

    C. Go to https://www.osboxes.org/, which has readily images of operating systems. Navigate to VirtualBox Images and select Ubuntu.
        Download link : https://sourceforge.net/projects/osboxes/files/v/vb/55-U-u/16.04/16.04.6/1604.664.7z/download
        Once downloaded, extract the folder.
    
    D. Open Oracle Virtaul Box, and click on "Create" to create a new Virtual Machine. Enter "Ubuntu" or any
    guest OS you want to install. Click on next, ensure you select atleast 2GB memory for the OS (Recommended one).
    After that, select the option "Use an existing Virtual Hard Disk" and select the downloaded Ubuntu image and click on CREATE.

    E. Once created, go to settings --> NETWORK --> Attached NETWORK --> Select attached to "Bridged Adapter" instead of NAT Network option.
        Note : If your PC/Machine Internet causing isssue in connection in next restart then please switch it back to "NAT" and once wifi is working you can revert it to "Bridge Adapter".
    
    F. One more setting before kicking off the guest OS is "Take a snapshot" to ensure a proper back of the installed version which
       can be used to restore if required.

    G. Start the OS. Once done Login screen will be opened, enter "osboxes.org" username and password and LOGIN.
        - if unable to start then please follow below  steps (Windows 10):
            1) open command prompt as Administrator
            2) run bcdedit to check hypervisor status:
            3) if is set to auto then disable it:
                bcdedit /set hypervisorlaunchtype off
            4) reboot host machine and launch VirtualBox again


    E. Go to Virtual OS terminal and find the IP Address by running "ifconfig" command.

    F. Now go to Host machine and install cmd tool for SSH (putty, MobaXterm etc). Here we are going to use MobaXterm

    G. Once installed, we are going to use this from host machine to connect to our virtual host. To do that, we will create a new SSH session by entering ipAddress of 
        Guest OS and username "osboxes". 
    
    ** If connection refused then please ensure that you have ssh service up and running on VM.
     - To check ssh service status : service ssh status  (To check the service status)
     - sudo su (Enter the password "osboxes.org")
     - apt-get update
     - apt-get install openssh-server
     - service ssh status (Check to see the service is installed and active/running or not)
     - Once done, go to MobaXterm ssh terminal and try to login into the session.

    If you are having trouble in running "apt-get update" then try to change Virtual Box Network Settings to NAT from Bridged network.
    Once installed, revert the network settings to "Bridge Adapter".

    E. Enter the password when prompted and you are already In. 




2. Lab Environment Cloud Setup  - Setup  Puppet environment on Cloud - To Deploy AWS instances

    A. Create a free tier account on AWS cloud  (https://aws.amazon.com/)

    B. Once login, select the REGION from top right corner. Each region has 2 availibility zones which are the
       physical data center for any region.
    
    C. Now go to SERVICES tab and select "EC2" which is AWS cloud computing service.

    D. Click on Launch Intance then choose AMI (Amazon Machine Instance) screen appears. Then click on "Community Amis"
        and search for "centos7.4" image. The next screen will show Intance type where you can select different configuration for your machine.

    E. For Pupper Master the adviced one is 4GB with 2 cCPU's machine, Once clicked click on "Add instance Configuration".
       Let all the defualt settings here and click on "Configure Add storage" followed by "cofigure add tags" and then 
       "configure Security Group".

    F. In "Secirty Group Screen", Create a new Security Group and name it "PuppetSetup" or any name that you want to keep.
        and allow open internet traffic for the application by adding a rule and select Type as "All TCP"  and Source "anywhere" and then click 
        on "Review and Launch" and verify your settings and clik on Launch.
    
    G. Here AWS asks you to select or create key pair, this is because key based authentication is the defualt authentication in AWS for Linux Instances.

    H. You need to create a new key value pair here. Enter the name of the key and click on download Keys Pair which is ".pem" file.

    I. Now click on Launch Instances and click on Instance ID to go to Instance details screen. Here it will take few minutes to initialize the instance context.
       You will get Non-Persistent Public IP with this instance which would be used later on to connect via ssh. One thing to keep in mind here is the IP will be changed everytime you stop and 
       start the instance.

    J.  The downloaded Key Pair is ".PEM" file, but to login into the server you need ".PKK" file. Download a "putty gen" software to
        convert "pem" to "pkk".

    K.  Opne putty-gen and load ".pem" file and save private key. 

    L.  Now its time to use "putty" to login into Amazon server using public key. Open Putty and enter "IP address".
        Then select SSH --> AUTH and select the private key. After selected click on OPEN. The console will ask for the user name.
        Please enter "centos" which is default user name for Centos. To check internet connection, type "sudo -i" or "ping google.com".

    M.  Now we will deploy the second AWS Machine which we will use as a Puppet Agent. The only diffence would be the instance type, which in 
        this case would be T2 type micro. 

    N. At security group selection, use the exisiting that we have created above and same while choosing Key Pair selection, and once all selected, click on Launch Button.

    O. Now go to Service Screen where you could see both of your services up and running. You can add Name to the service. Here for the first service we would name "Pupper_Master" and the Second one would be "Puppet_Agent".



NOTE : Tech Vocabs

 - manifestations  -  manifestations of <STH> : It’s important to note that not all manifestations of VirtualBox are free

Public and Private Cloud
Virtual and Local datacenter environments

Public Cloud - Azure, Amazon, GCP
Private Cloud - OpenStack, Vmware